=========
Changelog
=========

v0.3.0 (2023-12-01)
-------------------
Contributors to this version: Gabriel Rondeau-Genesse (:user:`RondeauG`), Trevor James Smith (:user:`Zeitsperre`).

New features and enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* The `xhydro` planification was added to the documentation. (:issue:`39`, :pull:`49`).

Breaking changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* `xhydro` now adheres to PEPs 517/518/621 using the `flit` backend for building and packaging. (:pull:`50`).

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
* The `return_level` dimension in `xh.frequency_analysis.local.parametric_quantiles()` is now the actual return level, not the quantile. (:issue:`41`, :pull:`43`).

Internal changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* Added `xhydro.testing.utils.publish_release_notes()` to help with the release process. (:pull:`37`).
* `xh.frequency_analysis.local.parametric_quantiles()` and `xh.frequency_analysis.local.criteria()` are now lazier. (:issue:`41`, :pull:`43`).
* The `cookiecutter` template has been updated to the latest commit via `cruft`. (:pull:`50`):
    * `Manifest.in` and `setup.py` have been removed.
    * `pyproject.toml` has been added, with most package configurations migrated into it.
    * `HISTORY.rst` has been renamed to `CHANGES.rst`.
    * `actions-version-updater.yml` has been added to automate the versioning of the package.
    * `bump-version.yml` has been added to automate patch versioning of the package.
    * `pre-commit` hooks have been updated to the latest versions; `check-toml` and `toml-sort` have been added to cleanup the `pyproject.toml` file.
    * `ruff` has been added to the linting tools to replace most `flake8` and `pydocstyle` verifications.

v0.2.0 (2023-10-10)
-------------------
Contributors to this version: Trevor James Smith (:user:`Zeitsperre`), Gabriel Rondeau-Genesse (:user:`RondeauG`), Thomas-Charles Fortier Filion (:user:`TC-FF`), Sébastien Langlois (:user:`sebastienlanglois`)

Announcements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* Support for Python3.8 and lower has been dropped. (:pull:`11`).
* `xHydro` now hosts its documentation on `Read the Docs <https://xhydro.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_. (:issue:`22`, :pull:`26`).
* Local frequency analysis functions have been added under a new module `xhydro.frequency_analysis`. (:pull:`20`, :pull:`27`).

New features and enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* GitHub Workflows for automated testing using `tox` have been added. (:pull:`11`).
* Support for various `xscen` functions has been added to compute indicators and various climate change metrics. (:pull:`21`).
* New function `xh.indicators.compute_volume` to convert streamflow data to volumes. (:pull:`20`, :pull:`27`).
* New function `xh.indicators.get_yearly_op` to compute block operation (e.g. block maxima, minima, etc.). (:pull:`20`, :pull:`27`).

Breaking changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* `xHydro` repository has renamed its primary development branch from `master` to `main`. (:pull:`13`).
* `xHydro` now requires a conda environment to be installed. (:pull:`21`).

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
* N/A

Internal changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
* Added a Pull Request template. (:pull:`14`).
* Various updates to the autogenerated boilerplate (Ouranosinc/cookiecutter-pypackage) via `cruft`. (:pull:`11`, :pull:`12`, :pull:`13`):
    * General updates to pre-commit hooks, development dependencies, documentation.
    * Added configurations for Pull Request and Issues templates, Zenodo.
    * Documentation now makes use of sphinx directives for usernames, issues, and pull request hyperlinks (via sphinx.ext.extlinks). (:issue:`15`).
    * GitHub Workflows have been added for automated testing, and publishing.
    * Some sphinx extensions have been added/enabled (sphinx-codeautolink, sphinx-copybutton).
    * Automated testing with tox now updated to use v4.0+ conventions.
    * Removed all references to travis.ci.
* Deployments to TestPyPI and PyPI are now run using GitHub Workflow Environments as a safeguarding mechanism. (:pull:`28`).
* Various cleanups of the environment files. (:issue:`23`, :pull:`30`).
* `xhydro` now uses the trusted publishing mechanism for PyPI and TestPyPI deployment. (:pull:`32`).
* Added tests. (:pull:`27`).

0.1.2 (2023-05-10)
------------------

* First release on PyPI.
